Implement RFC 1007 - Frozen users for parsec v2 (#5842)
Scille/parsec-cloud: docs/adminguide/frozen_users.rst

.. Parsec Cloud (https://parsec.cloud) Copyright (c) BUSL-1.1 (eventually AGPL-3.0) 2016-present Scille SAS

.. _doc_adminguide_frozen_users:

> Frozen users

Author: [90cb593](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/90cb593b227fb2624aa500b10763bcd7427c667c)

============

It is possible for server administrators to freeze specific Parsec users.

> This feature is not part of the Parsec revocation system, but a way for system administrators to temporarily block users from connecting to the server while waiting for organization administrators to actually revoke them. It is exposed as an HTTP route that requires the administration token. This way, it is possible for existing directory services to automatically freeze users that have been removed from the directory.

Reviewer: I would rephrase it a little bit:
* add small note of what revocation system is about.
* avoid using "feature" as it is a more spec-related term.
* emphasize main goal of the freeze/unfreeze mechanism 
```suggestion
Frozen users will be temporarily blocked from connecting to the Parsec server while waiting for an organization administrator to actually revoke them. This operation is thus not part of the Parsec revocation system (i.e. the definitive removal of the user's rights).

The freeze mechanism enables to automatically block users who have been deleted from a directory service (such as OpenLDAP or AD), as it is exposed in the form of HTTP routes that only require an administration token. 
```

Author: [70d6ef2](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/70d6ef29491522ed83c28a1dcd9f084b78896ef2)

HTTP ``users`` route
--------------------

This route is made available as ``/administration/organizations/<raw_organization_id>/users`` and requires an administration token.

> It only supports the ``GET`` method which lists information for all users, including Parsec ID, user name, user email, and frozen status.

Reviewer: I'd use a list here:
```suggestion
It only supports the ``GET`` method which lists information for all users, including:
* Parsec ID
* user name
* user email
* frozen status
```

Author: [70d6ef2](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/70d6ef29491522ed83c28a1dcd9f084b78896ef2)

Here's an example using ``curl`` and ``jq``:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ curl https://$server/administration/organizations/$organization/users \
        -H "Authorization: Bearer $administration_token" | jq

> A successful request returns a JSON dictionary similar to the one below:

Reviewer: I think it's _object_ instead of _dictionary_ in JSON terminology.
```suggestion
A successful request returns a JSON object with the following structure:
```

Author: [70d6ef2](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/70d6ef29491522ed83c28a1dcd9f084b78896ef2)

  .. code-block:: json

    {
      "users": [
        {
          "user_name": "Alice",
          "frozen": true,
          "user_email": "alice@example.com",
          "user_id": "940a380aedd44127863d952a66cfce1e"
        },
        {
          "user_name": "Bob",
          "frozen": false,
          "user_email": "bob@example.com",
          "user_id": "7d04b0df51a74158b35b6386eecdf4e0"
        }
      ]
    }

> HTTP ``users/frozen`` route

Reviewer: Ouch, I didn't see it before: shouldn't be `users/freeze`? it is a `POST` action

Author: [76af22d](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/76af22d60059ac1f670d9167ada9f0bcb3f70d2c)

---------------------------

This route is made available as ``/administration/organizations/<raw_organization_id>/users/frozen`` and requires an administration token.

It only supports the ``POST`` method which modifies the ``frozen`` status for a given user.

> Here's an example of generating the request data using ``jq``:

Reviewer: It seems odd to use `curl` for the get example and `jq` for the post example, maybe we should stick to one tool? (not 100% sure of my comment though)

Author: Both examples uses `curl` to perform the request and `jq` to generate or prettify the json data.

Reviewer: oops, my bad

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ DATA=$(jq -n --arg user_id "$user_id" --argjson frozen true '$ARGS.named')
    $ echo $DATA
    {
    "user_id": "940a380aedd44127863d952a66cfce1e",
    "frozen": true
    }

> The request can also use the ``user_email`` field instead of ``user_id`` to identify the Parsec user:

Reviewer: We could add a link to the section (see comment below):
```suggestion
The request can also use the ``user_email`` field instead of ``user_id`` to identify the Parsec user (see :ref:`user-identification`):
```

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ DATA=$(jq -n --arg user_email "$user_email" --argjson frozen true '$ARGS.named')
    $ echo $DATA
    {
    "user_email": "alice@example.com",
    "frozen": true
    }

Here's an example of running the request using ``curl`` and ``jq``:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ curl https://$server/administration/organizations/$organization/users/frozen \
        -H "Authorization: Bearer $administration_token" \
        --request POST --data $DATA | jq

A successful request returns a JSON dictionary similar to the one below:

  .. code-block:: json

    {
      "frozen": true,
      "user_email": "alice@example.com",
      "user_id": "940a380aedd44127863d952a66cfce1e",
      "user_name": "Alice"
    }

> User identification: email address vs Parsec ID

Reviewer: I would move this to the top section (before `HTTP users route`).
Also, I would rename it `Notes on user identification` or just `User identification` and add a label to reference it.

Author: [70d6ef2](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/70d6ef29491522ed83c28a1dcd9f084b78896ef2)

> User identification: email address vs Parsec ID

Reviewer: I would move this to the top section (before `HTTP users route`).
Also, I would rename it `Notes on user identification` or just `User identification` and add a label to reference it.

```suggestion
.. _user-identification:

User identification
```

Author: [70d6ef2](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/70d6ef29491522ed83c28a1dcd9f084b78896ef2)

-----------------------------------------------

There is a subtle difference between the two ways to identify a user. At any given time, an email address can be used to uniquely identify a non-revoked user from a given organization. In contrast, a Parsec user ID identifies uniquely any user from all organizations in the Parsec server, including revoked users. This means that over time, an email address can identify different Parsec users with different Parsec IDs, even from the same organization.

The frozen status configured by the ``POST`` method is specifically associated with the Parsec user ID, regardless of the identification method used in the request body. This has the following consequence: if a user is revoked and then a new user is created with the same email address, the frozen status will **not** be applied to the new user.

Error handling
--------------

> The following standard errors are handled the same way as for the other administration routes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following standard errors are handled the same way as for other administration routes:
```

Reviewer: Actually it's weird to talk about "other administration routes" since (i think) this is the very first time we publicly document an administration route.

Author: [70d6ef2](https://github.com/Scille/parsec-cloud/pull/5842/commits/70d6ef29491522ed83c28a1dcd9f084b78896ef2)
